For many, the idea of commuting1 daily to a place of work might sound outdated2. In the UK, at least, the shape of the working week is changing, and a new hybrid3 approach is becoming commonplace. This new look seems inevitable4: new technology means tasks traditionally done in the office can be done at home. And there's the demand for a better work-life balance, too. All of this has been accelerated by the necessary changes brought on by the Covid pandemic.
　　One obvious change in the UK is that Friday has become the most popular day to work from home. One survey found it's when just 13% of workers go into the office. It means employees can save on commuting costs and the price of lunches. And Claire McCartney from The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development told the BBC that generally employers thought the shift to hybrid working and home working had "increased productivity rather than decreased it".
　　Monday is also becoming a 'work from home' day: a recent study of mobile phone activity in the UK suggested a typical week in the office now runs from Tuesday to Thursday. This means companies have to think differently about the workspace they provide. Mark Allan, chief executive of property firm LandSec, told the BBC: "We certainly believe there are going to be fewer people in offices for the longer term, and we are planning accordingly." A shorter office week isn't great news for the city-centre shops, which depend on trade from workers. But suburban5 and small-town high streets are reporting an increase in footfall as people work and shop locally.
　　There's also an emerging trend for a shorter working week. Some companies are experimenting with a four-day working week – but with the same full-time6 pay. They have tried to make work time more efficient by cutting out unnecessary meetings and having shorter breaks, for example. They claim this has made workers more productive. All this makes you wonder if the act of going to work and doing the nine-to-five will become a thing of the past.